# Corruption Types 🦾

Here, we describe the various types of noises and effects applied to the clean dataset and the parameters that can be adjusted to customize the corruption process.
For a detailed explanation of the configuration file, refer to the [Configuration](configuration.md) section.


## Background Noises 🚦

Background noises are generated with a chosen Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) value to simulate different environments.
Configure the `content` section in the `config.yml` file to add background noise to the clean dataset.

### Download the datasets

- [**ESC50**](https://github.com/karoldvl/ESC-50/archive/master.zip)
- [**MUSAN**](https://www.openslr.org/resources/17/musan.tar.gz)
- [**UrbanSound8K** ](https://github.com/soundata/soundata#quick-example)

> To download `ESC50` and `MUSAN` use the provided links. For `UrbanSound8K`, follow the instructions below:

```
sudo apt-get install libasound2-dev
pip3 install soundata
```

```
python3
>> dataset = soundata.initialize('urbansound8k')
>> dataset.download()
```

### Default SNR values:
- 0dB
- 10dB
- 20dB

## GaussianSNR Noise 💨

Add White Gaussian Noise to the clean dataset with different Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) levels.
Configure the `gaussian` section in the `config.yml` file to add Gaussian noise to the clean dataset.

### Default SNR values:
- 0dB
- 10dB
- 20dB

## Impulse Response Effects 🚇

Impulse responses are applied to emulate acoustic environments like underground passages, underpasses, stairwells, etc.
A random impulse response within a given range of RT60 values from the dataset is convolved with the clean audio to simulate the effect of the environment on the sound.
Configure the `impulse_response` section in the `config.yml` file to apply impulse response effects to the clean dataset.

### Download the dataset
- [**EchoThief Impulse Response Library**](http://www.echothief.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/EchoThiefImpulseResponseLibrary.zip)

### Default RT60 range values:
- 0.1-0.5
- 0.5-1.5
- 1.5-5.0

## Clipping Distortion 📶

The signal is distorted by clipping a random percentage of points. The percentage of points to be clipped is drawn from a uniform distribution between 0 and `max_percentile_threshold`. For instance, if 30% is drawn, samples below the 15th or above the 85th percentile are clipped.
Configure the `clipping_distortion` section in the `config.yml` file to apply clipping distortion to the clean dataset.

### Default max_percentile_threshold values:
- 20
- 40
- 60


## Gain Transition 〽️

Gain transition effect is applied to gradually change the volume up or down over a time span. Also known as fade in and fade out.
It applies a gain transition to the clean audio with a random duration.
Configure the `gain_transition` section in the `config.yml` file to apply gain transition to the clean dataset.


### Default min_max_gain_db:
- [-40.0,-20.0]
- [-30.0,-10.0]
- [-20.0,0]


## Compression Artifacts 🎛️

Compression artifacts are generated by compressing an audio file to a given bit_rate using `ffmpeg`.
The file is being compressed to an .mp3 format, then converted back to wav at the original sample rate with 1 channel.
Configure the `compression` section in the `config.yml` file to apply compression artifacts to the clean dataset.
    

### Default bit_rate values:
- 8kbps
- 16kbps
- 32kbps
