docs/corruption_types.md, before:

# Corruption Types 🦾

Here, we describe the various types of noises and effects applied to the clean dataset and the parameters that can be adjusted to customize the corruption process.
For a detailed explanation of the configuration file, refer to the [Configuration](configuration.md) section.


## Background Noises 🚦

Background noises are generated with a chosen Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) value to simulate different environments.
Configure the `content` section in the `config.yml` file to add background noise to the clean dataset.

### Download the datasets

- [**ESC50**](https://github.com/karoldvl/ESC-50/archive/master.zip)
- [**MUSAN**](https://www.openslr.org/resources/17/musan.tar.gz)
- [**UrbanSound8K** ](https://github.com/soundata/soundata#quick-example)

> To download `ESC50` and `MUSAN` use the provided links. For `UrbanSound8K`, follow the instructions below:

```
sudo apt-get install libasound2-dev
pip3 install soundata
```

```
python3
>> dataset = soundata.initialize('urbansound8k')
>> dataset.download()
```

### Default SNR values:
- 0dB
- 10dB
- 20dB

## Gaussian Noise 💨

Add White Gaussian Noise to the clean dataset with different Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) levels. Configure the `gaussian` section in the `config.yml` file to add Gaussian noise to the clean dataset.

### Default SNR values:
- 10dB
- 20dB
- 30dB

## Impulse Response Effects 🚇

Impulse responses are applied to emulate acoustic environments like underground passages, underpasses, stairwells, etc.
A random impulse response within a given range of RT60 values from the dataset is convolved with the clean audio to simulate the effect of the environment on the sound.
Configure the `impulse_response` section in the `config.yml` file to apply impulse response effects to the clean dataset.

### Download the dataset
- [**EchoThief Impulse Response Library**](http://www.echothief.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/EchoThiefImpulseResponseLibrary.zip)

### Default RT60 range values:
- 0.1-0.5 seconds
- 0.5-1.0 seconds
- 1.0-1.5 seconds

## Clipping Distortion 📶

The signal is distorted by clipping a random percentage of points. The percentage of points to be clipped is drawn from a uniform distribution between 0 and `max_percentile_threshold`. For instance, if 30% is drawn, samples below the 15th or above the 85th percentile are clipped.
Configure the `clipping_distortion` section in the `config.yml` file to apply clipping distortion to the clean dataset.

### Default max_percentile_threshold values:
- 20
- 40
- 60


## Gain Transition 〽️

Gain transition effect is applied to gradually change the volume up or down over a time span (aka fade in/out). It applies a gain transition to the clean audio. The gain starts at the first gain and is held constant until the transition starts, and it transitions to the second gain. Then, that gain is held constant until the end of the sound. Configure the `gain_transition` section in the `config.yml` file to apply gain transition to the clean dataset.


### Default min_max_gain_db:
- [-40.0, -20.0]
- [-30.0, -10.0]
- [-20.0, 0.0]

> lists of [min_gain_db, max_gain_db] pairs

## Compression Artifacts 🎛️

Compression artifacts are generated by compressing an audio file to a given bit_rate using `ffmpeg`. The file is being compressed to an .mp3 format, then converted back to wav at the original sample rate with 1 channel. Configure the `compression` section in the `config.yml` file to apply compression artifacts to the clean dataset.
    

### Default bit_rate values:
- 8kbps
- 16kbps
- 32kbps


> ℹ️ For the majority of the corruptions, we use the [audiomentations](https://github.com/iver56/audiomentations.git) library.

Commit message:

Avoid resampling the ir dataset automatically

docs/corruption_types.md, after:

# Corruption Types 🦾

Here, we describe the various types of noises and effects applied to the clean dataset and the parameters that can be adjusted to customize the corruption process.
For a detailed explanation of the configuration file, refer to the [Configuration](configuration.md) section.


## Background Noises 🚦

Background noises are generated with a chosen Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) value to simulate different environments.
Configure the `content` section in the `config.yml` file to add background noise to the clean dataset.

### Download the datasets

- [**ESC50**](https://github.com/karoldvl/ESC-50/archive/master.zip)
- [**MUSAN**](https://www.openslr.org/resources/17/musan.tar.gz)
- [**UrbanSound8K** ](https://github.com/soundata/soundata#quick-example)

> To download `ESC50` and `MUSAN` use the provided links. For `UrbanSound8K`, follow the instructions below:

```
sudo apt-get install libasound2-dev
pip3 install soundata
```

```
python3
>> dataset = soundata.initialize('urbansound8k')
>> dataset.download()
```

### Default SNR values:
- 0dB
- 10dB
- 20dB

## Gaussian Noise 💨

Add White Gaussian Noise to the clean dataset with different Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) levels. Configure the `gaussian` section in the `config.yml` file to add Gaussian noise to the clean dataset.

### Default SNR values:
- 10dB
- 20dB
- 30dB

## Impulse Response Effects 🚇

Impulse responses are applied to emulate acoustic environments like underground passages, underpasses, stairwells, etc.
A random impulse response within a given range of RT60 values from the dataset is convolved with the clean audio to simulate the effect of the environment on the sound.
Configure the `impulse_response` section in the `config.yml` file to apply impulse response effects to the clean dataset.

### Download the dataset
- [**EchoThief Impulse Response Library**](http://www.echothief.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/EchoThiefImpulseResponseLibrary.zip)

You can resample the dataset to match your data sample rate.
Otherwise, the impulse responses will be resampled on the fly, potentially hurting execution time.
Additionally, note that the RT60 values of the dataset will be calculated on the dataset without resampling and it may affect their values.
If you are unsure about your dataset's sample rate or there are multiple sample rates across audios, do nothing and let the code resample on the fly.

### Default RT60 range values:
- 0.1-0.5 seconds
- 0.5-1.0 seconds
- 1.0-1.5 seconds

## Clipping Distortion 📶

The signal is distorted by clipping a random percentage of points. The percentage of points to be clipped is drawn from a uniform distribution between 0 and `max_percentile_threshold`. For instance, if 30% is drawn, samples below the 15th or above the 85th percentile are clipped.
Configure the `clipping_distortion` section in the `config.yml` file to apply clipping distortion to the clean dataset.

### Default max_percentile_threshold values:
- 20
- 40
- 60


## Gain Transition 〽️

Gain transition effect is applied to gradually change the volume up or down over a time span (aka fade in/out). It applies a gain transition to the clean audio. The gain starts at the first gain and is held constant until the transition starts, and it transitions to the second gain. Then, that gain is held constant until the end of the sound. Configure the `gain_transition` section in the `config.yml` file to apply gain transition to the clean dataset.


### Default min_max_gain_db:
- [-40.0, -20.0]
- [-30.0, -10.0]
- [-20.0, 0.0]

> lists of [min_gain_db, max_gain_db] pairs

## Compression Artifacts 🎛️

Compression artifacts are generated by compressing an audio file to a given bit_rate using `ffmpeg`. The file is being compressed to an .mp3 format, then converted back to wav at the original sample rate with 1 channel. Configure the `compression` section in the `config.yml` file to apply compression artifacts to the clean dataset.
    

### Default bit_rate values:
- 8kbps
- 16kbps
- 32kbps


> ℹ️ For the majority of the corruptions, we use the [audiomentations](https://github.com/iver56/audiomentations.git) library.
